README.md, before:

# RoboCert sequence experiment

This repository contains an attempt to build a sequence diagram language
for eventual inclusion into the RoboStar assertions language (ie RoboCert).

_Warning:_ I'm using this project to learn about the various workflows needed
to bring up a RoboStar language, so expect the following:

- things in strange locations;
- build scripts that aren't quite right;
- things that work on my computer that don't work on anyone else's.

I greatly appreciate any suggestions, comments, and issues.

## Example

(This example will go out of date fairly quickly as the language improves.)

```
sequence group Example: module ExampleRobot -> world {
  sequence Seq {
    anything except {| -> operation deviceOn() |} until
      -> operation deviceOff()
    then anything except {| -> operation deviceOff() |} until
      -> operation deviceOn()
    then anything until
      end
  }
}
assertion Foo: Example::Seq is not observed
assertion Bar: Example::Seq holds
```

## Layout

Packages are subject to renaming and moving at any time.

- `robocalc.robocert.model` is the metamodel for the sequence diagram language.
- `robocalc.robocert` is the textual (Xtext) language for the above metamodel.
- Everything else is, generally, artefacts derived from `robocalc.robocert`.

## Dependencies

- The RoboChart metamodel (see below - you may need to check out a local copy);
- The RoboChart textual grammar (we currently inherit from it in Xtext - this
  may change).
- Java 17.  This should now be readily available for modern systems (I was able
  to install it on Ubuntu 20.04, for instance), but likely won't be your
  default install at time of writing.

## How to use

I haven't yet been able to get Maven to work on my machine, so the easiest
approach for now is to use Eclipse.  Maven may work for you - please let me
know how you get on.

- You may need to have the RoboChart metamodel checked out as
  `circus.robocalc.robochart.parent` in the same directory as where you
  checked out this project.  There are some references in the `genmodel` that
  are path-relative, and I'm not yet sure how to make them more robust.
- The authoritative source for the metamodel is the Emfatic file:
  `robocalc.robocert.model/model/RoboCert.emf`.  Please generate the Ecore
  model from this, not the other way round.
- There is no automation for generating Ecore from Emfatic set up yet; in
  Eclipse, you can right-click the Emfatic file in the browser and select
  `Generate Ecore Model` for now.
- There are two MWE2 workflows: one in `robocalc.robocert.model` generates the
  metamodel Java files from the Ecore (_not_ the Emfatic file), and another
  in `robocalc.robocert` generates the Xtext artefacts from the grammar.
- Once everything has been generated, you should be able to run
  `robocalc.robocert` as an Eclipse plugin.
- For the tests, we need Hamcrest 2.2; at time of writing, Eclipse and JUnit
  tend to ship Hamcrest 1.3.  If using Eclipse, add the Eclipse Orbit
  repository (eg [2021-12](https://download.eclipse.org/tools/orbit/downloads/2021-12/))
  and get Hamcrest from there.  Not doing this will result in Eclipse
  pulling in the wrong Hamcrest and spouting very cryptic errors.

Commit message:

WIP: try to rename to robostar.robocert
this... has not gone well so far.  One day sunk down the drain.

README.md, after:

# RoboCert sequence experiment

This repository contains an attempt to build a sequence diagram language
for eventual inclusion into the RoboStar assertions language (ie RoboCert).

_Warning:_ I'm using this project to learn about the various workflows needed
to bring up a RoboStar language, so expect the following:

- things in strange locations;
- build scripts that aren't quite right;
- things that work on my computer that don't work on anyone else's.

I greatly appreciate any suggestions, comments, and issues.

## Example

(This example will go out of date fairly quickly as the language improves.)

```
sequence group Example: module ExampleRobot -> world {
  sequence Seq {
    anything except {| -> operation deviceOn() |} until
      -> operation deviceOff()
    then anything except {| -> operation deviceOff() |} until
      -> operation deviceOn()
    then anything until
      end
  }
}
assertion Foo: Example::Seq is not observed
assertion Bar: Example::Seq holds
```

## Layout

Packages are subject to renaming and moving at any time.

- `robostar.robocert.textual.model` is the metamodel for the sequence diagram language.
- `robostar.robocert.textual` is the textual (Xtext) language for the above metamodel.
- Everything else is, generally, artefacts derived from `robostar.robocert.textual`.

## Dependencies

- The RoboChart metamodel (see below - you may need to check out a local copy);
- The RoboChart textual grammar (we currently inherit from it in Xtext - this
  may change).
- Java 17.  This should now be readily available for modern systems (I was able
  to install it on Ubuntu 20.04, for instance), but likely won't be your
  default install at time of writing.

## How to use

I haven't yet been able to get Maven to work on my machine, so the easiest
approach for now is to use Eclipse.  Maven may work for you - please let me
know how you get on.

- You may need to have the RoboChart metamodel checked out as
  `circus.robocalc.robochart.parent` in the same directory as where you
  checked out this project.  There are some references in the `genmodel` that
  are path-relative, and I'm not yet sure how to make them more robust.
- The authoritative source for the metamodel is the Emfatic file:
  `robostar.robocert.textual.model/model/RoboCert.emf`.  Please generate the Ecore
  model from this, not the other way round.
- There is no automation for generating Ecore from Emfatic set up yet; in
  Eclipse, you can right-click the Emfatic file in the browser and select
  `Generate Ecore Model` for now.
- There are two MWE2 workflows: one in `robostar.robocert.textual.model` generates the
  metamodel Java files from the Ecore (_not_ the Emfatic file), and another
  in `robostar.robocert.textual` generates the Xtext artefacts from the grammar.
- Once everything has been generated, you should be able to run
  `robostar.robocert.textual` as an Eclipse plugin.
- For the tests, we need Hamcrest 2.2; at time of writing, Eclipse and JUnit
  tend to ship Hamcrest 1.3.  If using Eclipse, add the Eclipse Orbit
  repository (eg [2021-12](https://download.eclipse.org/tools/orbit/downloads/2021-12/))
  and get Hamcrest from there.  Not doing this will result in Eclipse
  pulling in the wrong Hamcrest and spouting very cryptic errors.
